---
title: "Value at Risk (II)"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - finance
  - risk
---
<script type="text/javascript" async
  src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML">
</script>

VaR Mapping refers to the process of replacing the current value of a portfolio with risk factor
 exposures. Generally, it is the process of replacing each instrument by its exposures on
  selected risk factors. Through mapping, a complex portfolio or instrument can be broken down
   into its constituent elements that determine its value.

### Mapping process
- mark all positions to market value
- identify common risk factors for different investment positions
- allocate the market value for each position/instrument to the risk factors
- construct a risk factor distribution and put all data into risk model

### General and Specific Risks Captures
To demonstrate how the choice and number of general risk factors affect the
 size of specific risks, consider a portfolio of bonds with different
  maturities, ratings, terms, and different denominations.
  
Assume a portfolio has N stocks and map each stock to the market index, which
 we define as the primitive risk factor.
 
The risk exposure, $$beta_{i}$$, is computed by regressing the return of
 stock i on the market index return using:
 
 $$R_{i} = \propto_{i} + \beta_{i} R_{M} + \epsilon_{i}$$

$$\propto$$ does not contribute to risk. Given that the relative weight of
 each stock is $$\omega_{i}$$, is:
 
 $$R_{p} = \sum_{i=1}^{N} \omega_{i} R_{i} = \sum_{i=1}^{N} \omega_{i} \beta_
 {i} R_{M} + \sum_{i=1}^{N} \omega_{i} \epsilon_{i} $$
 
The aggregate of all risk exposures, $$\beta_{i}$$, based on the market
 weight of each position, gives us the risk exposure as follows:
 
 $$ \beta_{p} = \sum_{i=1}^{N} \omega_{i} \beta_{i} $$

We can now decompose the variance of the portfolio return, V, as:

$$V(R_{p}) = \beta_{p}^{2} * V(R_{M}) + \sum_{i=1}^{N} \omega_{i}^{2} \sigma_
{\epsilon,i}^{2} $$

The first component of the decomposed variance equation shown above is the
 general market risk. The second component is the specific risk.
 
It can be shown that if the portfolio is equally weighted, i.e., $$\omega_{i
} = \omega = 1/N $$, and if all residual variances are the same, then the
 second component (specific risk) tends to zero. The only risk that remains
  is the general market risk, consisting of the beta squared times the
   variance of the market:
   
   $$ V(R_{M} ) \rightarrow \beta_{p}^{2} * V(R_{M}) $$

Thus, a great number of primitive or general market risk factors should
 create less residual or specific risk for a given fixed amount of total risk.
 
The mapping approach replaces a dollar amount of xi in stock i by a dollar
 amount of $$x_{i}\beta_{i}$$ on index
 

### Methods of Mapping Portfolios of Fixed Income Securities
- Principal mapping
- Duration mapping
- Cash flow mapping

